Welcome to Showtags
--------------------

If you collect recordings of live concerts, etc, showtags is the app to tag & rename them
(provided they are in FLAC format) to your liking.  Experimentally. showtags also supports
Ape files created with the 'mac' encoder.

Showtags works on most Linux distributions with a GTK3 installation.  It may someday work
on other OSes.   If you want to try it, please let me know what needs to be modified, or
submit a pull request.  

The app uses a shell script with several 'grep' and 'sed' commands to locate the titles to
the tracks, and print them on STDOUT, where they are captured by showtags.  I hope to one
day port the shell script to Python, to make the app Pure Python.

Installation:
_____________

You can obtain the source code for showtags at:
https://github.com/balinbob/showtags
and the code for the accompanying pytaggr at:
https://github.com/balinbob/pytaggr

Pytaggr is a command-line program for working with tags, including in batch format, in
audio files.  It is used here only to assist when you want to rename audio files from
their tags.  

If you don't already have it, install 'pip' which is a command-line utility for installing
Python programs.

On the command-line, type:  pip install -v pytaggr-(version).whl
and then: pip install -v showtags-(version).whl

This should install pytaggr and showtags, and their accompanying libraries.  Do not install 
them as root, or with sudo.   That way they will be installed in your home folder.   You can
see the paths and filenames as they are installed with pip install -v.  If you do not have
the local binary path in your environment's PATH variable, pip will warn you to include it.
In your .bashrc file, in your home directory, at the very end add:
export PATH="$PATH:/home/bob/.local/bin"
You may try this out by typing the same thing into the command-line in your terminal-emulator.
Then, type:  which showtags
which should tell you showtags' path, and verify that you can now run it with just the word
showtags.  If it works, add that directory to your PATH in .bashrc, so that showtags is always
available.

Running Showtags:
_______________

For now, run showtags' GUI from a terminal-emulator, making sure your PATH variable includes
the path to the showtags executable.  When running on the command-line, you can use 'cd' to 
change directory to your FLAC files, and that path will be used as the default when opening
the File Chooser. or you can specify the path on the command-line after the name of the app.
When you do neither one, you'll simply be prompted to browse for the path in the GUI.

Steps to tag &/or rename your files:
------------------------------------

1.  Click the 'FLAC folder' button, and browse for the folder containing the files to be
    tagged.  Click 'Open' and a list of those files will be loaded into the form.  Any 
    existing tags will also appear in the right-hand column, where you can edit them or
    simply use them as they are for renaming the files.

2.  Click the 'Text File' button, which is now no longer 'greyed out', to load the .txt
    containing the show info.  The shell script will parse the file, and attempt to load
    the titles into the form beside the filenames, as well as tracknumbers.

    Should any unwanted text appear as a title, such that you have more titles than files,
    you can right-click the unwanted text and remove it.   If titles are missing, you may
    need to switch to the text view and temporarily edit the tracklist so that they will
    be found.   The best way is to precede each title in the Text view with the tracknumbers.
    They will be easier to find correctly.  Go back to Main, and click Rescan.

    If you need to edit a title, double click that title.  If you simply need to add a
    missed title, right-click, and select 'insert' to insert a blank title.

    Usually showtags will find the correct titles itself.

3.  If a character needs to be removed from titles (this sometimes happens when titles have
    an asterisk or greater-than sign in them) you can put a string of single characters to
    remove into the top text entry at the left, and watch how the titles are modified.  To
    remove an entire string from several titles, use the entry below.  This is usually an
    optional step.

    Removing asterisks, greater-than signs, etc, is optional, but will sometimes make the
    filenames more easily used in the terminal.

4.  Now, simply click Tag.  If you want to rename the files, then click Rename, and see the
    new filenames appear in the form.

5.  To add other tags, such as the ones displayed on your computer, etc, (Artist, Album, etc.),
    click the small button between the two lists at the botttom, to expand the dropdown list of
    tags for all files, and select one to edit.  You may also enter your own tag names and values.
    The 'venue' tag may be used, but remember that it will probably not be shown on your computer
    or phone's music-player app.  Best to include the date and venue in the 'album' tag.

6.  Currently, you may switch to the Artwork View, and drag and drop a jpeg or png image there.
    It will appear, and will be applied as the front cover art for the files, when you Tag.




